Cloud and CloudFoundry
======================

Course duration 40 hours/5 days

The client needs to select the programming language for this
course. Currently it is: python.
The client also need to select a development environment.

Course Description and objectives
---------------------------------
The course will introduce the cloud to cloud newbie developers.
It will explain the theory behind modern cloud environments, why
they are needed, what they are good at, what deficiencies do they
have, what are the differences between them. The participants
will also get practical experience creating basic applications
for the cloud and deploying them.
A secondary topic that will be discussed is containers and
microservices. Theory of these will be discussed and hands on
practice will follow.

Prerequisites
-------------
* Experience in developing web and enterprise applications in any
platform (.NET, JEE, Ruby-On-Rails, Django-python, ...).
* Basic knowledge of the programming language to be chosen (python).
* Some cloud computing concepts knowledge is recommended but not required.

Intended Audience
-----------------
Web and enterprise developers with understanding of web application
design and implemetation on any platform (.NET, JEE, Ruby-On-Rails, Django-python, ...).

Syllabus
--------
* day 1 
	- Cloud Development Philosophy and trends
	- IaaS/PaaS/SaaS
	- Private cloud vs public cloud
	- Review of different cloud providers: AWS, GAE, AZURE, CloudFoundry
	- Review of migrating your apps to the cloud
* day 2+3
	- Hands on exercises on CloudFoundry using python.
* day 4
	- Containers and microservices theory.
	- Hands on for Containers and microservices on CloudFoundry.
* day 5
	- Continue: Hands on for Containers and microservices on CloudFoundry.
